Description:
  Cloudcuckooland is a Utopia planned and built by Peisthetaerus and Euelpides in the play "The Birds" by Aristophanes. Cloudcuckooland is located
  in the sky, between the realm of the gods and the world of humans. This position symbolizes the bridge between the realms, giving it control over 
  communication between the gods and humans. Peisthetaerus and Euelpides make Cloudcuckooland to escape Athens because of its corruption, constant warfare
  and busy lives. The citys main goal is to take control of the space that is where prayers, sacrifices and messages are sent to the gods, thereby
  creating a position of power for the birds over both the gods and the humans.

How it was built:
  During the play the first messenger describes to Peisthetaerus how Cloudcuckooland is being built. The messenger says that only birds made Cloudcuckooland.
  They all worked by hand. "Thirty thousand cranes flew in from Lybia-they brought foundation stones they'd swallowed down. The corn crakes chipped away to from
  the proper shapes. Ten thousand storks brought bricks. Lapwings and other river birds fetch water up into the air from down below." The First Messenger then
  goes on to say how other birds helped in the making of Cloudcuckooland. "The most skilled craftsmen-birds of all of them—woodpeckers. They pecked away to make the gates—the
  noise those peckers made—an arsenal! Now the whole thing has gates. They’re bolted shut and guarded on all sides. Sentries make rounds,
  patrolling with their bells, and everywhere troops are in position, with signal fires on every tower. But I must go now—I need to wash. You’ll have to do the rest.

Aristophanes symbolism:
  Cloudcuckooland symbolizes the want for a perfect society. Aristophanse uses the city to mock the idea that a perfect place could ever become reality. 
  The fact that building a city in the clouds is nonsense underlines the fact that a perfect society is also nonsense. Through the creation of Cloudcuckooland
  Aristophanes reflects on the desire to run away and create a perfect world. While this desire is understandable, its portrayed as foolish and unattainable.
  The citys creation and governance under Peisthetaerus, which satirizes the political leaders of Athens. Aristophanes suggests that in a seemingly perfect society,
  human flaws and the desire for control will surface.