Euelpides

Character Description:
  Euelpides, whose name is translated to "Good Hope", is an Athenian who also like Pisthetaerus, has become 
  disillusioned with his life in Athens. He is viewed as simple-minded, happy to follow Pisthetaerus on the journey
  Euelpides is more comedic then Pisthetaerus, providing humour through skepticism and cowardice.

Role and Actions in the play:
  Euelpides and Pisthetaerus travel together, being guided by their birds, in search for a better life. 
  Euelpides has doubts during their journey, this highlights his more cautious and hesitant nature compared
  to Pisthetaerus.

  When fisrt meeting the birds. Euelpides is less eager to engage with them. He is much more reluctant then 
  Pisthetaerus, Pisthetaerus is more eager to present the plan then Euelpides. During early scenes Euelpides 
  brings more comic relief in his reluctant nature, Expressing confusion or fear when interacting with the 
  unknown.

  Once Pisthetaerus lays out his ambitions Euelpides takes on a supportive role and helps Pisthetaerus through supporting
  his efforts. He doesent actively participate in the persuasion of the birds, or the creation of Cloudcuckooland but
  he does help Pisthetaerus with the work never taking the lead.

  Progressing through the play, Euelpides becomes less important to the plot. Pisthetaerus takes center stage, 
  while Euelpides gets put in the background. The transition displays the contrast between Pisthetaerus and Euelpides
  Pisthetaerus is a leader, he is more ambitious and will put more effort into his goals. Euelpides personality makes
  him more loyal and supportive. Instead of being a risk taker or persuasive, he makes sure to assist Pisthetaerus.

Analysis:
  Euelpides modesty emphasizes Pisthetaerus boldness. His reluctance to fully embrace the plans tempers Pisthetaerus 
  ambitions, but his willingness to follow shows how being around a persuasive leader can still sway the cautious.

  Euelpides is the main provider of comic relief throughout the play. His interactions with Pisthetaerus make him 
  show Euelpides funny traits. His fear and skepticism contribute to the play, making him a relatable Character
  among the other more powerful characters.