Tereus

Character Description:
  Tereus in Greek Mythology was a king of Thrace, he was the son of Ares the god of war. Tereus was married to the Princess Procne and the father of Itys.
  Tereus is known for his violent and aggressive nature. including raping his sister in law, Philomela, and multilation to prevent her from speaking of
  the crime. His wife, Procne took revenge by killing their own son Itys and serving him as a meal to Tereus. The gods transform Tereus, Procne and Philomela into
  birds. With Tereus transforming into a Hoopoe.

Role in the Play:
  Tereus, after being transformed into a bird, plays an important role as the middle-man between the human world and bird world. When Peisthetaerus and Euelpides
  arrive in search of a better life, Tereus is the first bird they encounter. He introduces them to the idea of building a grand city in the sky, where the birds
  could rule over both the gods and the humans, he becomes a key figure in helping the humans communicate with the birds.

Actions in the Play:
  Tereus explains to Peisthetaerus and Euelpides the idea of the bird world, offering then an alternative to the corrupt human society they wish to escape.

  Tereus helps Pisthetaerus and Euelpides gain the trust of the birds, who initially dont trust the humans. He assures the other birds that humans are allies
  and not threats.

  Once Peisthetaerus comes up with the idea of building "Cloudcuckooland", Tereus assists with organzing the bird community to work towards its creation.

Analysis:
  Tereus in "The Birds" represents the blend between his tragic backstory and Aristophanes comedy. His character is transformation from a brutal and vengeful 
  myth to a comedic character. This shift allows Aristophanes to use the themes of power in a lighthearted and comedic light. The symbolism of the Hoopoe
  is linked to punishment and redemption. In a humerous manner, Tereus in not a violent king but he is a bird. This shift from king to bird is a metaphor
  for how he also changes from an evil tyrant to a ally in an ambitious plan to take over the existing rulers of the universe. Tereus's character displays 
  Aristophanes commentary on how peoples indentity and power can change.