Athens: 
  Athens is the capital and the largest city in Greece. it is the eighth largest urban area in the European Union. The city of Athens has a
  population of 643,452 in 2021. Athens is also on of the world's oldest cities, with its history spanning over 3,400 years. According
  to Greek Mythology it was named after the Greek Goddess of wisdom known as Athena. But most scholars now believe that she had her name taken
  from the city itself.  

Classical Athens and Aristophanes View On its Political System:
  The city of Athends during the Classical period was the major urban centre of the state also called Athens. The Athenian democracy was
  established in 508 BC under Cleisthenes. The system remain stable and was in place for 180 years. Aristophanes lived from the middle of the fifth
  century to the start of the 4th century BC. Aristophanes was critical of the democracy in Athens during the time, He frequently targeted
  the politicians of the time within his comedies using satire to show the people the flaws and the corruption that Aristophanes believed was
  present within the political system.  

Aristophanes depiction of Athens in the play "The Birds":
  At the start of the play Aristophanes introduces us to Peisthetaerus and Euelpides who are escaping Athens to find somewhere better. 
  This already establishes that Aristophanes's opinion on Athens is negative early on. Peistheraerus and Euelpides want to escape the busy life
  in Athens and its corrupt political system. "The Athenians always seek some new thing, and hate the thought of staying at home; they're always
  wandering about, restless and shifting as leaves in the wind, they're forever voyaging, running off to serve as mercenaries abroad." Here 
  Peistheraerus is describing the Athenians describing how they are never happy with their life and always have to improve it. Peistheraerus
  and Euelpides are sick of this life and want to leave it. Aristophanes uses these two characters to express how he feels too in a satire way.
  Aristophanes uses Athens and its people in his comedies as a tool to make his comedies funnier for the people who lived in Athens at the time, and
  also a tool for his true feelings on Athens.
