Aristophanes explores the theme of freedom in "The Birds" to create a deeper meaning within the play 
to express how true freedom and peace cannot mix. Aristophanes gives Pisthetaerus and Euelpides the goal to create a society 
of freedom and peace, he then creates characters which display to the audience why this is not possible, Examples include the priest, the poet and the young man.

While Cloudcuckooland is being built the priest comes to Cloudcuckooland so the people who live there can practice religion. Peisthetaerus kicks
him out because the priest represents restrictions, Pisthetaerus didnt want restrictions because that breaks away from a utopia as a utopia 
requires freedom to exist. However even though Pisthetaerus kicks him out to maintain freedom the next characters who arrive allow Aristophanes
to show why true freedom is not possible. The poet comes to Cloudcuckooland to sing songs of praise to Pisthetaerus as leader, Pisthetaerus kicks
him out which symbolises that flattery and meaningless words arent welcome in Cloudcuckooland, having a poet praising Pisthetaerus also means that
he is the leader which creates a social heiarchy within Cloudcuckooland, if a social heiarchy is present that means that not everyone is equal
removing the possibility for a utopia. Later the young man arrives, thinking that if he lives in Cloudcuckooland he would be able to kill his
father because he could have freedom to do whatever he wants, Pisthetaerus kicks him out which allows Aristophanes to tell us that Cloudcuckooland
is not even close to being free, If the people in Cloudcuckooland were actually allowed to do whatever they wanted Peisthetaerus would not have
kicked them all out, however if he let them in there wouldnt be peace. This part of the play displays exactly why a human utopia is not possible.

Aristophanes used these characters to express the difficulties in creating a peacefull society where anyone can do what they want. A peaceful society 
has to be restricted in some way however a Utopia requires freedom, everyone to be equal and everyone to be in harmony. Which is too difficult for a 
human rulership to create with its imperfect human qualities. 
