Pisthetaerus

Character Description:
  Pisthetaerus is an Athenian, who became disillusioned with life in Athens
  and seeks a better life. He is smart, ambitious and convincing, with a great
  ability to manipulate. Pisthetaerus embodies the personality of a hero who 
  uses his wits to acheive goals.


Role and Actions in the Play:
  Pisthetaerus first persuades the birds, who at first distrusted humans, to join
  pisthetaerus in creating a city in the sky which will control the space between 
  earth and heaven, thereby taking the offerings and sacrifices made by humans.

  Under his leadership, the birds build the city. His plan is to intercept the smoke
  from human sacrifices, which would cause the gods to starve, this would force the
  gods to negotiate with the birds. This city becomes symbolic of a utopia, with an 
  ideal society removing the flaws of Athens and the gods.

  When the gods realize they are being deprived of their offerings, they send messagers
  to negotiate with Pisthetaerus, however instead of defending Cloudcuckooland; he demands Zues
  hand over the scepter of authority and that the birds will be the new rulers of the universe.

  During the end of the play, Pisthetaerus' manipulative abilities allowed him to outmaneuver
  both the birds and the gods. Zues yields, giving Pisthetaerus the scepter and approval to marry 
  Sovereignty, who is the personification of dominion and power.

Analysis:
  Pisthetaerus symbolises the theme of ambition and the power of rhetoric. His name in greek roughly
  translates to trusty friend. His transition from a unhappy Athenian to the ruler of the universe
  shows Aristophanes satrical take on our human nature. 
  
  Aristophanes uses Pisthetaerus to satirize the Athenian society's political ideaology.
  Pisthetaerus is used to mock the idea that humans can create a perfect society, as 
  in Cloudcuckooland peace still requires manipulation and force.

  Pisthetaerus's success is based on his ability to persuade the people who want to join
  Cloudcuckooland. When people arrive for bad intentions Pisthetaerus still needs to persuade
  them that they can't join for those reasons. Meaning even in a utopia you still 
  need laws and rules to enforce peace upon everyone in the society.